2.0 - Typescript rewrite and more (#28)
TheRolfFR/firestorm-db: README.md

Reviewer: this is what I'd suggest doing syntax-wise
```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");
const firestorm = createFirestorm({
    name: "production",
    ...
});
```

Reviewer: don't forget to add documentation for the other new file methods

form.append("overwrite", "true");

const uploadPromise = instance.files.upload(form);

uploadPromise.then(() => console.log("Upload successful")).catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

## Get a file

`Firestorm.files.get` takes a file's direct URL location or its content as its parameter. If your upload folder is accessible from a server URL, you can directly use its address to retrieve the file without this method.

```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");

// no write token is required to use this method
const instance = createFirestorm({ address });

const getPromise = instance.files.get("/quote.txt");

getPromise
	.then((fileContent) => console.log(fileContent)) // but your kids are gonna love it.
	.catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

## Delete a file

`Firestorm.files.delete` has the same interface as `Firestorm.files.get`, but as the name suggests, it deletes the file.

```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");
const instance = createFirestorm({ address, token });

const deletePromise = instance.files.delete("/quote.txt");

deletePromise
	.then(() => console.log("File successfully deleted"))
	.catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

> ## Copy a file

Reviewer 2: You can maybe join the examples into one single paragraph, where you say: 1. create your instance 2. call you method get/copy/move/delete

Reviewer: ^ agreed, I think a table would actually work better to match how the read/write methods are handled

Reviewer 2: The table isn't that compact compared to real example code usage

<div align="center">
<img src="img/firestorm-128.png">

<h1>firestorm-db</h1>

<a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/firestorm-db" target="_blank">
    <img alt="npm" src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/firestorm-db?color=cb0000&logo=npm&style=flat-square">
</a>
<img alt="GitHub file size in bytes" src="https://img.shields.io/github/size/TheRolfFR/firestorm-db/src%2Findex.js?color=43A047&label=Script%20size&logoColor=green&style=flat-square">
<a href="https://github.com/TheRolfFR/firestorm-db/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md">
    <img alt="Changelog" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Changelog-Read_here-blue?style=flat-square">
</a>
<a href="https://github.com/TheRolfFR/firestorm-db/actions/workflows/tests-js.yml">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/TheRolfFR/firestorm-db/tests-js.yml?style=flat-square" alt="Tests" />
</a>
</div>

_Self hosted Firestore-like database with API endpoints based on micro bulk operations._

# JavaScript Client

> The JavaScript client is a fairly simple wrapper around the backend PHP endpoints, using the native `fetch` API to handle requests. Any server errors will be returned as error objects with status and response details.

Reviewer: mentioning native fetch at this point is a bit pointless, the only reason axios was notable is that errors were AxiosErrors and could need special handling.

```suggestion
The JavaScript client is a fairly simple HTTP wrapper around the backend PHP endpoints that provides validation and type safety. More information about manually making requests can be found in the "Advanced Features" section.
```

## JavaScript setup

Every Firestorm database starts by creating a new server instance with the `createFirestorm()` function. This takes an object of optional configuration options as an argument, which can then be retrieved or set using the corresponding fields.

```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");

// All of these arguments are optional and can be specified by directly setting the fields if needed.
const instance = createFirestorm({
	/** The name of the instance internally, useful for reflection and error messages */
	name: "production",
	/** The base address of your Firestorm setup, with a slash at the end. */
	address: "https://example.com/path/to/firestorm/root/",
	/** Your write token, if it exists. It must exactly match a value from your tokens.php file. */
	token: "my_secret_token_probably_from_an_env_file",
});

instance.address; // returns "https://example.com/path/to/firestorm/root"
instance.name = "dev"; // sets the debugging name to dev
```

After setting your server address and token fields, you can begin using Firestorm to its full potential.

## Create your first collection

> Firestorm is based around the concept of a `Collection`, which is akin to an SQL table or Firestore collection. The Firestorm collection constructor takes a configuration options object:

Reviewer: oh this is funny, I think you did a find and replace for document and accidentally replace "Firestore document" with "Firestore collections" (google uses different terminology, a document is a single file and a collection is a whole database)

Author: Oops

- `name` (`string`, required): The name of the collection.
- `methods` (`Function`, optional): A method adder, which lets you inject methods into query results. The callback receives the element and the collection instance, and returns an object of methods to attach.

> - `idField` (`string`, optional): Custom ID field name (defaults to `"id"`).

Reviewer: you should definitely mention where to find more information about id fields (advanced) since otherwise this is completely impossible to understand

```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");
const instance = createFirestorm({ address, token });

const userCollection = instance.collection({
	name: "users",

> 	methods: (el) => ({

Reviewer: I still don't love using object merging here, because working directly with return values like the old system did let you apply practically arbitrary transformations to the data that even with your modifications is impossible (e.g. you can delete sensitive fields, add computed properties, methods, etc)

maybe instead of calling them addMethods you could call it like transform() or something more neutral? the old readme referred to it as being almost identical to Array::map anyways lol

Author: Uhh yeah forgot to modify that while integrating computed properties back

| `invert`       | No          | _N/A_                    | Inverts the state of a boolean field.                                                                                                  |
| `increment`    | No          | `number`                 | Adds a number to the field (default: 1).                                                                                               |
| `decrement`    | No          | `number`                 | Removes a number from the field (default: 1).                                                                                          |
| `array-push `  | Yes         | `any`                    | Pushes an element to the end of an array field.                                                                                        |
| `array-delete` | Yes         | `number`                 | Removes an array element by index.                                                                                                     |
| `array-splice` | Yes         | `[number, number, any?]` | Last argument is optional. Check the PHP [array_splice](https://www.php.net/manual/function.array-splice) documentation for more info. |

# PHP Backend

> Firestorm's PHP files handle files, read, and writes, through `GET` and `POST` requests sent by the JavaScript client. All JavaScript methods correspond to an equivalent HTTP request to the relevant PHP file.

Reviewer: aren't other methods now used for the expanded file api? might be worth either clarifying or just removing that bit

```suggestion
Firestorm's PHP files handle read and writing collections, version validation, and file management through HTTP requests sent by the JavaScript client to the relevant PHP files.
```

## PHP setup

The server-side files to handle requests can be found and copied to your hosting platform [here](./src/server/), which are compatible with PHP 8.2+. The two files that need editing are `tokens.php` and `config.php`.

- `tokens.php` contains writing tokens declared in a `$db_tokens` array. These correspond to the token field set on your Firestorm instance in the JavaScript client.
- `config.php` stores all of your collections. This file needs to declare a `$database_list` associative array of `JSONDatabase` instances.

```php
<?php
// config.php
require_once './classes/JSONDatabase.php';

$database_list = [];

// without constructor
$tmp = new JSONDatabase;
$tmp->folderPath = './files/';
$tmp->fileName = 'orders';
$tmp->autoKey = true;
$tmp->autoIncrement = false;

$database_list[$tmp->fileName] = $tmp;

// with constructor ($fileName, $autoKey = true, $autoIncrement = true)

> $tmp = new JSONDatabase('users', false);

Reviewer: probably use keyword arguments here, I feel like encouraging that would be good practice

$tmp->folderPath = './files/';

$database_list[$tmp->fileName] = $tmp;
```

- The database will be stored in `<folderPath>/<fileName>.json` (default folder: `./files/`).
- `autoKey` controls whether to automatically generate the key name or to have explicit key names (default: `true`).
- `autoIncrement` controls whether to simply start generating key names from zero or to use a [random ID](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.uniqid.php) each time (default: `true`).

> - `secureKeys` controls whether to use cryptographically secure random keys instead of timestamp-based unique IDs when `autoIncrement` is `false` (default: `false`).

Reviewer: link to the cryptographic functions you use, good for nosy developers lol

- The key in the `$database_list` array is what the collection should be referred to in the JavaScript collection constructor. This can be different from the JSON filename if needed.

If you're working with multiple collections, it can be easier to initialize them all in the array constructor directly:

```php
// config.php
<?php
require_once './classes/JSONDatabase.php';

$database_list = [

>     'orders' => new JSONDatabase('orders', true),

Reviewer: same with the keyword arguments

    'users' => new JSONDatabase('users', false),
];
```

## Permissions

The PHP scripts used to write and read files need permissions to edit the JSON files. You can give Firestorm rights to a folder with the following command:

```sh
sudo chown -R www-data "/path/to/firestorm/root/"
```

# Firestorm Files

> Firestorm's file APIs are implemented in `files.php`. If you don't need file-related features, then simply delete this file.

Reviewer: also delete the contents of files_api/

To work with files server-side, you need to add two new configuration variables in `config.php`:

```php
// Extension whitelist
$authorized_file_extension = ['.txt', '.png', '.jpg', '.jpeg'];

// Root directory for where files should be uploaded
// ($_SERVER['SCRIPT_FILENAME']) is a shortcut to the root Firestorm directory.
$STORAGE_LOCATION = dirname($_SERVER['SCRIPT_FILENAME']) . '/uploads/';
```

From there, you can use the functions in `instance.files` (detailed below) from the JavaScript client.

> ## Upload a file

Reviewer: I agree with rolf, this should be a table (the FormData part can stay)

movePromise
	.then((res) => console.log(res.message)) // Successfully moved file from /quote_backup.txt to /renamed_quote.txt
	.catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

## Check if a file exists

`instance.files.exists` checks whether a file exists at the given path on the server.

```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");
const instance = createFirestorm({ address });

const exists = await instance.files.exists("/quote.txt");
console.log(exists); // true or false
```

## Append to a file

`instance.files.append` appends text content to a file directly on the server without having to download and re-upload it.

```js
const { createFirestorm } = require("firestorm-db");
const instance = createFirestorm({ address, token });

// create parameter is optional (defaults to false); set to true to create the file if it doesn't exist
const appendPromise = instance.files.append("/quote.txt", "\n- Doc Brown", false);

appendPromise
	.then((res) => console.log(res.message)) // Successfully appended content to /quote.txt
	.catch((err) => console.error(err));
```

# Advanced Features

## `ID_FIELD` and its meaning

> There's a constant field in all Firestorm collections called `ID_FIELD`, which is a JavaScript-side property added afterwards to each query element.

Reviewer: are we still using ID_FIELD or is it now idField? this still doesn't feel very clear

```

## Combining collections

Using add methods in the constructor, you can link multiple collections together.

```js
const orders = instance.collection({ name: "orders" });

// using the example of a customer having orders
const customers = instance.collection({
	name: "customers",
	methods: (el, collection) => ({
		getOrders: () =>
			orders.search([
				{
					field: "customer",
					criteria: "==",
					// assuming the customers field in the orders collection is a user ID
					value: el[collection.idField],
				},
			]),
	}),
});

const johnDoe = await customers.get(123456789);

// returns orders where the customer field is John Doe's ID
await johnDoe.getOrders();
```

This functionality is particularly useful for complex data hierarchies with foreign keys spanning multiple collections, and is the main reason why add methods exist in the first place. It can also be used to split deeply nested data structures to increase server-side performance by only loading relevant data.

## Manually sending data

Each operation type requests a different file. In the JavaScript client, the corresponding file gets appended onto your base Firestorm address.

> - Read requests are `GET` requests sent to `<your_address_here>/get.php`.

Reviewer: both get and post depending on support (get with payload isn't exactly official)

- Write requests are `POST` requests sent to `<your_address_here>/post.php` with JSON data.

> - File requests are `POST` requests sent to `<your_address_here>/files.php` with form data.

Reviewer: not just post requests anymore

```

Injected methods and computed properties should be stored in a separate interface passed as the second generic parameter (`ItemExtensions`) to the collection. TypeScript ensures type safety and prevents custom methods or computed properties from overriding existing item fields at compile time:

```ts
import { createFirestorm } from "firestorm-db";
const instance = createFirestorm({ address, token });

interface User {
	name: string;
	age: number;
}

interface UserExtensions {
	isAdult: boolean;
	hello(): string;
}

const userCollection = instance.collection<User, UserExtensions>({
	name: "users",
	methods: (el) => ({
		isAdult: el.age >= 18,
		hello: () => `${el.name} says hello!`,
	}),
});

const johnDoe = await userCollection.get(123456789);
const hello = johnDoe.hello(); // type: string
const isAdult = johnDoe.isAdult; // type: boolean
```

You can also chain additional methods and computed properties via the `.addMethods()` fluent API:

```ts
interface ExtraExtensions {
	bye(): string;
}

const enrichedUsers = userCollection.addMethods<ExtraExtensions>((el) => ({
	bye: () => `Bye ${el.name}!`,
}));
```

> ## Document Resource

Reviewer: this should be documented in the regular js section as well, it's relevant to everyone not just TS users

## JavaScript setup

Every Firestorm database starts by creating a new server instance with the `createFirestorm()` function. This takes an object of optional configuration options as an argument, which can then be retrieved or set using the corresponding fields.

```js
const createFirestorm = require("firestorm-db");

// All of these arguments are optional and can be specified by directly setting the fields if needed.

> const firestorm_instance = createFirestorm({

Reviewer: this is a pretty small nitpick but you should either use camelCase here (`firestormInstance` or just call it `firestorm` or `instance` for all the documentation.

I would personally go with just `firestorm` since similar factory functions tend to prefer naming its return value after what comes after the create (e.g. `app = createApp()`, `root = createRoot()`)

// type: { [userCollection.ID_FIELD]: string, name: string, password: string, pets: string[] }
```

Injected methods should be stored in a separate interface passed as the second generic parameter to the collection. This keeps your data models clean and type-safe:

```ts
const firestorm = require("firestorm-db");
const firestorm_instance = firestorm.create({ address, token });

interface User {
    name: string;
}

> interface UserMethods {

Reviewer: yeah I don't like this, I think hello is conceptually closer to a field than a whole separate interface

Author: But that's bad practice
